tidymodels 2022 Q4 update (#612)
tidyverse/tidyverse.org: content/blog/tidymodels-2022-q4/index.Rmd

-   [tidyclust is on CRAN](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2022/12/tidyclust-0-1-0/)
-   [Model calibration](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2022/11/model-calibration/)
-   [Improvements to model specification checking in tidymodels](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2022/10/parsnip-checking-1-0-2/)

Since [our last roundup post](https://www.tidyverse.org/blog/2022/10/tidymodels-2022-q3/), there have been CRAN releases of `r nrow(tm_data)` tidymodels packages. Here are links to their NEWS files:

```{r}
#| echo: FALSE
#| results: asis

cat(tm_data$news, sep = "\n")
```

We'll highlight a few especially notable changes below: more specialized role selectors in recipes, extended support for grouped resampling in rsample, and a big speedup in parsnip. First, loading the collection of packages:

```{r}
#| eval: FALSE
library(tidymodels)
```

## Specialized role selectors

The [recipes package for preprocessing](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/) supports tidyselect-style variable selection, and includes some of its own selectors to support common modeling workflows.

> To illustrate, we'll make use of a dataset `silly_data` with a number of different variable types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To illustrate, we'll make use of a dataset `goofy_data` with a number of different variable types:
```

Author: Ope, an artifact from a previous naming choice😄

```{r}
#| include: FALSE
assign_letter <- function(names) {
  c("class", letters[1:(length(names)-1)])
}

goofy_data <- 
  sim_classification(num_linear = 3) %>%
  mutate(across(ends_with("_1"), ~ as.factor(round(.x)))) %>%

>   mutate(two_factor_1 = as.integer(two_factor_1)) %>%

Reviewer 2: I would turn more of the double variables into integers. It is hard to see the difference in the output when only `a` isn't affected

Author: I agree! We'll now create three rather than one.

```{r}
recipe(class ~ ., goofy_data) %>%
  step_dummy(all_nominal_predictors()) %>%
  prep()
```

Operations like those above have been long-standing functionality in recipes, and are powerful tools for effective modeling. The most recent release of recipes introduced [finer-grain selectors](https://fosstodon.org/@emilhvitfeldt/109315135944110742) for variable types. For instance, we may want to only center and scale the *double* (i.e. real-valued) predictors, excluding the integers. With the new release of recipes, we can easily do so:

```{r}
recipe(class ~ ., goofy_data) %>%
  step_normalize(all_double_predictors()) %>%
  prep()
```

This is one of a number of new selectors:

-   The `all_nominal()` selector now has finer-grained versions `all_string()`, `all_factor()`, `all_unordered()`, and `all_ordered()`.

-   The `all_numeric()` selector now has finer-grained versions `all_double()`, and `all_integer()`.

-   New `all_logical()`, `all_date()`, and `all_datetime()` selectors.

All new selectors have `*_predictors()` variants. You can read more about recipes 1.0.3 in the [release notes](https://recipes.tidymodels.org/news/index.html#recipes-103).

## Grouped resampling

> The most recent release of rsample introduced support for stratification with grouped resampling. Consider the following data set, giving whether a number of `household`s `chops` the `n_melons` melons in their fridge:

Reviewer: I think it's a little easier to explain the variables after the code chunk (avoiding a little grammar clash between households plural and chops singular):

```suggestion
The most recent release of rsample introduced support for stratification with grouped resampling. Consider the following toy data set on the number of melons in a household:
```

Author: Agreed.

```{r}
#| include: FALSE
set.seed(1)

household_table <- 
  tibble(
    household = 1:100,
    chops = sample(c(rep("Yes", 90), rep("No", 10)))
  )

n_melons_table <- 
  tibble(
    household = sample(1:100, 5e3, replace = TRUE),
    n_melons = rexp(5e3, .01)
  )

melons <- 
  full_join(household_table, n_melons_table, by = "household") %>%
  rowwise() %>%
  mutate(n_melons = if_else(chops == "Yes", n_melons, rpois(1, 2) * n_melons)) %>%
  ungroup() %>%
  mutate(n_melons = as.integer(round(n_melons)),
         household = as.factor(household)) %>%

>   filter(n_melons < 500)

Reviewer: those are some big fridges! "Everything is bigger in America!" 😂 

```suggestion
  filter(n_melons < 500) %>%
  select(household, n_melons, chops)
```

Just reordering according to the narrative changes suggested below

Author: 😆 Made sure to choose that exponential `rate` to give realistic results!!!

```

```{r}
melons
```

> There are `r length(unique(melons$household))` different households in this dataset, each of which either chops their melons or keeps them whole. At different points in time, they have some number of melons in their fridge.

Reviewer: I think mentioning different time points makes people immediately question whether or not time is relevant. How about we make this multiple members of a household for the repeated measurements? I'm gonna claim that all members of a household adopt the same habit of chopping or not 🤓 i.e. the stratification variable is constant per group.

```suggestion
There are `r length(unique(melons$household))` different households in this dataset. Each member of the household has some number of melons `n_melons` in their fridge. A household, i.e., all its members, either `chops` their melons or keeps them whole.
```

Author: Ah, good point.

```{r}
#| include: FALSE
set.seed(1)
```

```{r}
resample <- group_initial_split(melons, group = household)

sum(
  unique(training(resample)$household) %in% 
  unique(testing(resample)$household)
)
```

However, note that there are only a few households that don't chop their melons, and those households tend to have many more melons to chop!

```{r melon-plot, fig.alt = "A ggplot histogram displaying the mean number of melons per household, filled by whether the household chops their melons or not. The plot shows that there are relatively few households that don't chop their melons, but those households have many more melons to chop. Households that chop their melons have around 80 to chop, while those that don't have around 200."}
#| message: FALSE
#| warning: FALSE
#| echo: FALSE
melons %>%
  group_by(household, chops) %>%
  summarize(mean_n_melons = mean(n_melons)) %>%
  ggplot(aes(x = mean_n_melons, fill = chops)) +
  geom_histogram(bins = 20) +
  scale_fill_viridis_d(end = .5) +
  labs(x = "Mean Number of Melons Per Household", 
       y = "Count", 
       fill = "Household\nChops Melons")
```

> If we're ultimately interested in modeling whether a household chops their melons, we ought to ensure that both values of `chops` are well-represented in both the training and testing set. The argument `strata = chops` indicates that sampling by `household` will occur within values of `chops`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we're ultimately interested in modeling whether a household chops their melons, we ought to ensure that both values of `chops` are well-represented in both the training and testing set. The argument `strata = chops` indicates that sampling by `household` will occur within values of `chops`. Note that the strata must be constant in each group, so here, all members of a household need to either chop or not.
```

Author: Added. :)
